---
path: "/javascript30"
date: "2018-02-25"
title: "JavaScript30 and React Review"
---

## Hammer it Home.
I am continuously questioning my understanding of the concepts I have learned. Have I learned enough?  Are the skills I have employable?  How do I know if I'm ready?  I was listening to the [code newbie podcast](https://www.codenewbie.org/podcast/the-javascript-first-responder) and the host was talking with Wes Bos.  Many people who use JavaScript have heard this name and if not, do a quick google.  Better yet do what I did and check out [JavaScript30](https://javascript30.com/).  Wes has set out 30 exercises to sharpen your JavaScript skills.  You can follow along or challenge yourself by completing the exercises without any assistance.  The best part is you don't have to complete them in any set time and the cost is manageable on any budget, Free!  I was able to spend an afternoon plugging away at a few exercises and feel relatively accomplished.

I refreshed my knowledge of array methods, learned how to update CSS variables with JavaScript, played around with the setInterval method and Date object, used event listeners and querySelector methods.  All in all it was a pretty productive afternoon.  Most of the information I was already aware of, but I had not been presented the opportunity to think about the problem in the way it was presented to me this time.  After watching the second exercise, which was making a clock which synced to the current time, I even spent a little extra time fine tuning the equation to get it just right.  In the first four exercises which I completed, there was a good variety of examples.  I didn't feel as if I was completing the same material and each victory gave me a different reward.  Some were audible or visual, while others were merely logged in the console.  I look forward to continuing to complete this course, and spend another afternoon burying myself in JavaScript challenges.

##REACTing to codecademy's courses
My latest affinity is with the React framework.  I am continually looking for better ways to write and understand it's nuances.  Creating components is at the core, and really getting back to basics is where I have been focused.  I searched for a good place to do this and decide to return to [codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/).  I have used their online learning before and find they break learning down to the fundamentals.  Using bite sized information they allow for learning to take place with simple to follow instructions.  On one occasion I ran into an error where it wouldn't let me pass even though I had all of my code written correctly. I verified this when I clicked on the solve it button.  This is has happened a few time in the use of this service, but it is few and far between.  The pros have outweighed the cons and I continue to use it to strengthen my skills.  

The way they were able to deconstruct React was what impressed me the most.  This is a relatively new course they added, and the amount of information to consume it quite vast.  After completing the React:Part I section, I felt more comfortable with React then I had in a while.  Granted, I have been using it throughout various projects along with dabbling in JavaScript for over a year now. This may add to my comfort levels.  React: Part II is my next conquest and I look forward to mentioning the challenges I face completing the course. 